Michael Joseph Jackson (August 29, 1958 – June 25, 2009) was an American singer, songwriter, and dancer.
Dubbed the "King of Pop", he is regarded as one of the most significant cultural figures of the 20th century.
Through stage and video performances, he popularized complicated dance techniques such as the moonwalk,
to which he gave the name, and the robot. His sound and style have influenced artists of various genres,
and his contributions to music, dance, and fashion, along with his publicized personal life,
made him a global figure in popular culture for over four decades.
Jackson is the most awarded artist in the history of popular music.

Jackson is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, with estimated sales of over 350 million records worldwide.
Thriller is the best-selling album of all time, with estimated sales of 66 million copies worldwide. In addition,
the remix album Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix (1997) is the best-selling remix album of all time.
Bad was the first album to produce five Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles. Jackson had 13 Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles,
more than any other male artist in the Hot 100 era, and was also the first artist to have a top ten single in the Billboard Hot 100 in five different decades.
He received 13 Grammy Awards, the Grammy Legend and Grammy Lifetime Achievement awards, six Brit Awards,
a Golden Globe Award, and 39 Guinness World Records, including the "Most Successful Entertainer of All Time".
Jackson's inductions include the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame twice, the Vocal Group Hall of Fame, the Songwriters Hall of Fame,
the Dance Hall of Fame (the only recording artist to be inducted), and the Rhythm and Blues Music Hall of Fame.
In 2016, his estate earned $825 million, the highest yearly amount for a celebrity ever recorded by Forbes.

Through his videos and live performances, Jackson popularized street dances, particularly his signature move the moonwalk,
and attracted a cult of impersonators throughout the world. He is credited with helping to spread dance to a global audience
and having an influence comparable to dance icons such as to Fred Astaire and Sammy Davis Jr. With an aesthetic borrowed from the musical
film tradition, the Thriller videos created a subindustry of choreographers as other pop artists sought to produce sophisticated
dance-oriented promotional films. In the 1980s, Jackson's personal idiosyncracies and changing appearance became the source of fascination
for the tabloid media, a phenomenon furthered by the child abuse accusations leveled against him in 1993.
These eccentricities and controversies inspired a wealth of pictures and other artworks exploring his public image,
which were presented in the 2018 exhibition Michael Jackson: On the Wall at London's National Portrait Gallery. 

Entertainer Michael Jackson is regarded as a prolific philanthropist and humanitarian. Jackson's early charitable work has been
described by The Chronicle of Philanthropy as having "paved the way for the current surge in celebrity philanthropy", and by the
Los Angeles Times as having "set the standard for generosity for other entertainers". By some estimates, he donated over $500 million
to charity over the course of his life, at one time being recognized in Guinness World Records for the breadth of his philanthropic work.
The actual amount of donations made by Michael may be even higher, but the exact amount is not known since Jackson often gave anonymously
and without fanfare. In addition to supporting a substantial number of charities established by others, in 1992 Jackson established
the Heal the World Foundation, to which he donated several million dollars in revenue from his Dangerous World Tour.

Aside from monetary donations, Jackson's philanthropic activities also included performing in benefit concerts and giving away tickets for
regular concert performances to groups aiding underprivileged children, making hospital visits to sick children and opening his home
for visits, with attention to providing special facilities and nurses if the children needed that level of care. He also donated valuable
personal and professional paraphernalia for numerous charity auctions. Jackson received various awards and accolades for his philanthropic
work, including two bestowed by Presidents of the United States.

“Let us dream of tomorrow where we can truly love from the soul, and know love as
the ultimate truth at the heart of all creation.”
– Michael Jackson

“Please go for your dreams. Whatever your ideals, you can become whatever you
want to become.”
-Michael Jackson


“When they say the sky's the limit to me that's really true”
― Michael Jackson 